=pod

=head1 NAME

MooseX::Role::Loggable - Extensive, yet simple, logging role using Log::Dispatchouli

=head1 VERSION

version 0.111

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package My::Object;

    use Moose; # or Moo
    with 'MooseX::Role::Loggable';

    sub do_this {
        my $self = shift;
        $self->set_prefix('[do_this] ');
        $self->log_debug('starting...');
        ...
        $self->log_debug('more stuff');
        $self->clear_prefix;
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a role to provide logging ability to whoever consumes it using
L<Log::Dispatchouli>. Once you consume this role, you have attributes and
methods for logging defined automatically.

    package MyObject;
    use Moose # Moo works too
    with 'MooseX::Role::Loggable';

    sub run {
        my $self = shift;

        $self->log('Trying to do something');

        # this only gets written if debug flag is on
        $self->log_debug('Some debugging output');

        $self->log(
            { level => 'critical' },
            'Critical log message',
        );

        $self->log_fatal('Log and die');
    }

This module uses L<Moo> so it takes as little resources as it can by default,
and can seamlessly work with both L<Moo> or L<Moose>.

=head1 Propagating logging definitions

Sometimes your objects create additional object which might want to log
using the same settings. You can simply give them the same logger object.

    package Parent;
    use Moose;
    with 'MooseX::Role::Loggable';

    has child => (
        is      => 'ro',
        isa     => 'Child',
        lazy    => 1,
        builder => '_build_child',
    );

    sub _build_child {
        my $self = shift;
        return Child->new( logger => $self->logger );
    }

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 debug

A boolean for whether you're in debugging mode or not.

Default: B<no>.

Read-only.

=head2 logger_facility

The facility the logger would use. This is useful for syslog.

Default: B<local6>.

=head2 logger_ident

The ident the logger would use. This is useful for syslog.

Default: B<calling object's class name>.

Read-only.

=head2 log_to_file

A boolean that determines if the logger would log to a file.

Default location of the file is in F</tmp>.

Default: B<no>.

Read-only.

=head2 log_to_stdout

A boolean that determines if the logger would log to STDOUT.

Default: B<no>.

=head2 log_to_stderr

A boolean that determines if the logger would log to STDERR.

Default: B<no>.

=head2 log_file

The leaf name for the log file.

Default: B<undef>

=head2 log_path

The path for the log file.

Default: B<undef>

=head2 log_pid

Whether to append the PID to the log filename.

Default: B<yes>

=head2 log_fail_fatal

Whether failure to log is fatal.

Default: B<yes>

=head2 log_muted

Whether only fatals are logged.

Default: B<no>

=head2 log_quiet_fatal

From L<Log::Dispatchouli>:
I<'stderr' or 'stdout' or an arrayref of zero, one, or both fatal log messages
will not be logged to these>.

Default: B<stderr>

=head2 logger

A L<Log::Dispatchouli> object.

=head1 METHODS

All methods here are imported from L<Log::Dispatchouli>. You can read its
documentation to understand them better.

=head2 log

Log a message.

=head2 log_debug

Log a message only if in debug mode.

=head2 log_fatal

Log a message and die.

=head2 set_debug

Set the debug flag.

=head2 clear_debug

Clear the debug flag.

=head2 set_prefix

Set a prefix for all next messages.

=head2 clear_prefix

Clears the prefix for all next messages.

=head2 set_muted

Sets the mute property, which makes only fatal messages logged.

=head2 clear_muted

Clears the mute property.

=head2 BUILDARGS

You shouldn't care about this. It takes care of propagating attributes
from a given logger (if you provided one) to the attributes this role provides.

=head2 log_fields

B<DEPRECATED>.

Please pass the logger attribute instead:

    SomeObject->new( logger => $parent->logger );

=head1 DEBUGGING

Occassionally you might encounter the following error:

    no ident specified when using Log::Dispatchouli at Loggable.pm line 117.

The problem does not stem from L<MooseX::Role::Loggable>, but from a builder
calling a logging method before the logger is built. Since L<Moo> and L<Moose>
do not assure order of building attributes, which means that some attributes
might not exist by the time you need them.

This specific error happens when the C<ident> attribute isn't built by the
time a builder runs. In order to avoid it, the attribute which uses the builder
should be made lazy, and then called in the C<BUILD> method. Here is an
example:

    package Stuff;

    use Moose;
    with 'MooseX::Role::Logger';

    has db => (
        is      => 'ro',
        lazy    => 1,
        builder => '_build_db',
    }

    sub _build_db {
        my $self = shift;
        $self->log_debug('Building DB');
        ...
    }

    sub BUILD {
        my $self = shift;
        $self->db;
    }

This makes the C<db> attribute non-lazy, but during run-time. This will assure
that all the logging attributes are created B<before> you build the C<db>
attribute and call C<log_debug>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sawyer X <xsawyerx@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2012 by Sawyer X.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

